[docs] Add initial documentation for read-write mode (#3951)
grafana/mimir: docs/sources/mimir/operators-guide/deploy-grafana-mimir/jsonnet/configure-deployment-mode.md

---
description: Learn how to configure Grafana Mimir deployment mode.
menuTitle: Configure deployment mode
title: Configure deployment mode
weight: 40
---

# Configure deployment mode

> Grafana Mimir supports multiple [deployment modes](). By default the provided jsonnet will deploy in microservices mode. Monolithic mode is not current supported in jsonnet.

Reviewer: > [deployment modes]()

Please add the missing link.

> Grafana Mimir supports multiple [deployment modes](). By default the provided jsonnet will deploy in microservices mode. Monolithic mode is not current supported in jsonnet.

Reviewer: > not current supported

Is this form correct?

Author: No, it is a typo.

## Use Read-Write deployment mode

> **Warning:**

> > Read-Write deployment mode is currently considered experimental and not ready for production use.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> Read-Write deployment mode is currently considered experimental.
```

### Requirements

> Read-Write deployment mode requires that multi-zone ingesters and multi-zone store gateways are used. Additionally rule evaluation is performed within Mimir-Backend, so ruler remote evaluation must be disabled.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Read-write deployment mode requires that multi-zone ingesters and multi-zone store gateways are used. Additionally rule evaluation is performed within Mimir-Backend, so ruler remote evaluation must be disabled.
```

Reviewer: > Additionally rule evaluation is performed via Mimir read, so ruler remote evaluation must be disabled.

This is not 💯 correct. We still do remote rule evaluation, via mimir **read**, but we don't run a dedicated read-path stack for rule evaluations.

The deployment mode is set by the `deployment_mode` configuration variable.

```jsonnet
{
  _config+:: {
    deployment_mode: 'read-write',

    mimir_write_replicas: 15,
    mimir_read_replicas: 6,
    mimir_backend_replicas: 9,

    // Requirements.
    multi_zone_ingester_enabled: true,
    multi_zone_store_gateway_enabled: true,
    ruler_remote_evaluation_enabled: false,

>     // Disable microservice autoscaling.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

    // Disable microservices autoscaling.
```

    autoscaling_querier_enabled: false,
    autoscaling_ruler_querier_enabled: false,
  }

}
```

Autoscaling can be configured for the read path:

```jsonnet
{
  _config+:: {
    autoscaling_mimir_read_enabled: true,
    autoscaling_mimir_read_min_replicas: 2,
    autoscaling_mimir_read_max_replicas: 20,
  }
}
```

CLI Flags for Read-Write components are inherited from the microservices.

```jsonnet
{
  _config+:: {
    // This change will apply to mimir-backend too.
    store_gateway_args+:: {
      'blocks-storage.bucket-store.sync-interval': '5m',
    },
  }
}
```

⚠️ Pitfall: Kubernetes resources overrides not inherited. Remember to apply overrides both microservices and read-write components, when changing:

> - Container spec (e.g. env vars)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Container specification (e.g. environment variables)
```

Reviewer 2: > 

```suggestion
- Container specification, for example environment variables
```

- Deployment
- StatefulSet
- Service
- PodDisruptionBudget

```jsonnet
{
  _config+:: {
    // This change will NOT be applied to mimir-write too.
    ingester_container+::
      container.withEnvMixin(
        [envVar.new('GOGC', '50')]
      ),

    mimir_write_container+::
      container.withEnvMixin(
        [envVar.new('GOGC', '50')]
      ),

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

  }
}
```

### Migrating from Microservices to Read-Write deployment mode

> **Warning:**

> > Migration between deployment modes is not supported.

Reviewer: What does this mean? We're documenting it :)

Author: It means proceed with caution as read-write is still experimental. It's supported in code, but not necessarily by us. I'll reword.

> 1. Deploy read-write components along side microservices with `deployment_mode: 'migration'` (they join the same ring).

Reviewer: Move the migration process to a dedicate page and document it for real please :) Document it step-by-step, as we do our own migration.

---
description: Learn how to configure Grafana Mimir deployment mode.
menuTitle: Configure deployment mode
title: Configure deployment mode
weight: 40
---

# Configure deployment mode

> Grafana Mimir supports multiple [deployment modes]({{< relref "../../architecture/deployment-modes/index.md" >}}). By default the provided jsonnet will deploy in microservices mode. Monolithic mode is not currently supported in jsonnet.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Grafana Mimir supports multiple [deployment modes]({{< relref "../../architecture/deployment-modes/index.md" >}}). By default, the provided Jsonnet deploys in microservices mode. Monolithic mode is not supported in Jsonnet.
```

Reviewer 2: "currently" is redundant

## Use Read-Write deployment mode

> **Warning:**
> Read-Write deployment mode is currently considered experimental.

### Requirements

> Read-write deployment mode requires that multi-zone ingesters and multi-zone store gateways are used. Additionally rule evaluation is performed within Mimir-Backend, so ruler remote evaluation must be disabled.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Read-write deployment mode requires that multi-zone ingesters and multi-zone store gateways are used. Additionally rule evaluation is performed within mimir-backend, so ruler remote evaluation must be disabled.
```

Reviewer 2: Is `mimir-backend` a technical thing?

Author: Yes, will fix this.

> The deployment mode is set by the `deployment_mode` configuration variable.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can set the deployment mode via the `deployment_mode` configuration variable:
```

```jsonnet
{
  _config+:: {
    deployment_mode: 'read-write',

    mimir_write_replicas: 15,
    mimir_read_replicas: 6,
    mimir_backend_replicas: 9,

    // Requirements.
    multi_zone_ingester_enabled: true,
    multi_zone_store_gateway_enabled: true,
    ruler_remote_evaluation_enabled: false,

    // Disable microservices autoscaling.
    autoscaling_querier_enabled: false,
    autoscaling_ruler_querier_enabled: false,
  }

}
```

> Autoscaling can be configured for the read path:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can configure autoscaling for the read path:
```

```jsonnet
{
  _config+:: {
    autoscaling_mimir_read_enabled: true,
    autoscaling_mimir_read_min_replicas: 2,
    autoscaling_mimir_read_max_replicas: 20,
  }
}
```

> CLI Flags for Read-Write components are inherited from the microservices.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
CLI Flags for read-write components are inherited from the microservices.
```

> CLI Flags for Read-Write components are inherited from the microservices.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
CLI flags for read-write components are inherited from the microservices:
```

> ```jsonnet

Reviewer: I would clarify this is just an example:

{
  _config+:: {
    // This change will apply to mimir-backend too.
    store_gateway_args+:: {
      'blocks-storage.bucket-store.sync-interval': '5m',
    },
  }
}
```

> ⚠️ Pitfall: Kubernetes resources overrides not inherited. Remember to apply overrides both microservices and read-write components, when changing:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
⚠️ Pitfall: Kubernetes resources’ overrides are not inherited. Remember to apply overrides to both microservices and read-write components, if you make changes to any of the following items:
```

Reviewer 2: Please vet this for technical accuracy after I created complete sentences.

- Container specification, for example environment variables
- Deployment
- StatefulSet
- Service
- PodDisruptionBudget

> ```jsonnet

Reviewer: I would clarify this is just an example:

---
description: Learn how to configure Grafana Mimir deployment mode.
menuTitle: Configure deployment mode
title: Configure deployment mode
weight: 40
---

# Configure deployment mode

Grafana Mimir supports multiple [deployment modes]({{< relref "../../architecture/deployment-modes/index.md" >}}). By default, the provided Jsonnet deploys in microservices mode. Monolithic mode is not supported in Jsonnet.

## Use Read-Write deployment mode

> **Warning:**
> Read-Write deployment mode is currently considered experimental.

### Requirements

> Read-write deployment mode requires that multi-zone ingesters and multi-zone store gateways are used. Additionally rule evaluation is performed within `mimir-backend`, so ruler remote evaluation must be disabled.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Read-write deployment mode requires that you use multi-zone ingesters and multi-zone store gateways. Additionally,  rule evaluation is performed within `mimir-backend`, so you must disable ruler remote evaluation.
```

You can set the deployment mode via the `deployment_mode` configuration variable:

```jsonnet
{
  _config+:: {
    deployment_mode: 'read-write',

    mimir_write_replicas: 15,
    mimir_read_replicas: 6,
    mimir_backend_replicas: 9,

    // Requirements.
    multi_zone_ingester_enabled: true,
    multi_zone_store_gateway_enabled: true,
    ruler_remote_evaluation_enabled: false,

    // Disable microservices autoscaling.
    autoscaling_querier_enabled: false,
    autoscaling_ruler_querier_enabled: false,
  }

}
```

You can configure autoscaling for the read path:

```jsonnet
{
  _config+:: {
    autoscaling_mimir_read_enabled: true,
    autoscaling_mimir_read_min_replicas: 2,
    autoscaling_mimir_read_max_replicas: 20,
  }
}
```

CLI flags for read-write components are inherited from the microservices. For example:

```jsonnet
{
  _config+:: {

>     // This change will apply to mimir-backend too.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    // This change also applies to mimir-backend.
```
